In this video we'll see how we can throw and catch multiple exceptions.
Suppose we have a function such as the one in this slide.
The function is called calculate miles per gallon and it expects a number of miles and the number of
gallons is parameters.
And it just simply divides miles by gallons and returns the result.
This function will fail if the number of gallons is zero because we'd have a divide by zero error.
That's what we did in the previous video.
But it would also produce incorrect results if either miles or gallons is negative.
In this case we can check for both of these situations and throw a different exception for each case.
Let's see how we can write this function.
So it does just that the code is pretty much what you would expect.
We check if gallons is 0 and if it is we throw in a teacher zero exception.
We also check if either miles or gallons are negative.
And if they are we throw a stood string object initialized to the string negative value air.
Otherwise we simply perform the division and return the result.
Let's see how we would call this function.
Notice in the try block we're calling calculate mpg and that function may or may not throw an exception
if it does not then we simply assign the result of the function two miles per gallon.
Display it and then we display by at the end of the program and we're done.
However what if calculate miles per gallon does throw an exception.
Remember it could throw an INT or a stood staring so we create to catch handlers one for each exception
type and we write our exception handling code in the catch box.
If an exception is thrown then one of these catch handlers will handle it.
If we don't handle a particular exception type here then C poster posts will terminate this function
and proceed up the call stack looking for a handler until it finds one or the program terminates.
It's also possible to have a catch all handler this catch handler will fire no matter what type of exception
is thrown.
If this is used it's common to place it as the last of your catch blocks since it really serves to catch
anything that wasn't handled before.
Notice the three dots are ellipsis in the catch all parameter list.
You don't have access to the exception object thrown in this case but you can deal with the exception
in the body of the catch all Block.
Now let's head over to the ID and we'll rewrite that calculate miles per gallon to throw multiple exceptions.
OK so I mean the Kotler idea in the Section 18 workspace and I mean the MPG function multiple exceptions
project what we've got is the same calculate mpg function that it's simply throwing an exception when
gallons was 0 and what we want to do is we want to extend this a little bit so that will also throw
a different exception when Miles or gallons is less than zero.
OK so right now we've got it throwing 0 if gallons is zero and we can simply add another check that
says if Miles is less than zero or gallons is less than zero then we want to throw an exception here.
Now it can't be another integer we're already throwing an integer type.
So in this case I simply want to throw a std string
and I'll just initialize it to something like negative value error or something like that.
And that might include string appear.
That's it.
So in this case if we're getting in a division by zero error right here with gallons equals zero I'm
throwing the integer.
In this case if I've got an illegal negative value I'm just going to throw a.
String that's been initialized to that string negative value air.
That's it.
Now down here if I run this now and throw a string it's going to terminate right because I'm not catching
a string.
So what I need to do down here is add another catch handler for that stood string.
So I can add that right down here and I can say I'm catching a string by reference we can call it anything
we like.
I just I always call them X for exception.
A lot of people call them e whatever you like.
It's just a variable name.
And in this case I'm going to display two standard error.
The actual exception which is a string so I don't really have to type anything here for the for the
string it's just going to display that string value that's in that exception object.
That's it.
So let's try this.
Let's run it and let's do something like 120 divided by zero which gives us the try to divide by zero
error.
And now we've got to buy.
So that's correct.
And now let's try to throw on negative So let's say negative 1 and 123 negative value error just like
we expected.
And we'll test it with negative 1 for gallons or negative anything actually.
There's your negative value there.
That's it.
Simple as that.
So you can see here we're throwing multiple exception types and down here we're catching multiple exception
types.
Now if I had to catch all händler here if I didn't have this handler right here and I simply had a catch
something like this with the ellipsis and not have this string here then that would certainly catch
the string.
I just wouldn't have access to the object that's all.
OK.
So that's it for this video.
See you in the next video.